FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS FOR POLAR SCAN MATCHING

QUESTIONS:

Have you got any documentation for this code?
Can I use it under Windows?
Why does it says during compilation that unistd.h is missing?
Can I use PSM without odometry?
What laser range finders are known to work with PSM? 
I have got this new laser range finder, can you help me to get it to work with PSM?
Is PSM better than ICP?
Is there a better algorithm than PSM?
What is LASER_Y parameter for?
Why do I get the following error during compilation: No rule to make target "test/main.cpp", needed by "main.o"?
What are these "not enough points" and "orientation failed" error messages?
I need a faster laser scan matching method, what should I do?

ANSWERS:


Have you got any documentation for this code?

The code comes with a moderate amount of Doxygen style
documentation. To view it open up doc/index.html in the directory of
PSM.  However for a better understanding I do recommend reading:
A. Diosi and L. Kleeman, "Fast Laser Scan Matching using Polar
Coordinates", Published in 2007 in IJRR.


Can I use it under Windows?
Why does it says during compilation that unistd.h is missing?

This PSM implementation is aimed at Linux. However the core of PSM:
polar_match.cpp, polar_match.h may be converted with little effort
to compile under other operating systems.


Can I use PSM without odometry?

This implementation of PSM was not specifically designed for use
without prior pose information provided by odometry, but if you do use
it for matching laser scans taken at small pose increments, you may
benefit from reducing the values of the following constants: 
PM_WEIGHTING_FACTOR, PM_MAX_ERROR, PM_STOP_COND.


What laser range finders are known to work with PSM? 

PSM was tested with SICK LMS 200, SICK PLS101-112, Hokuyo URG-04LX
(including the UG1), Hokuyo UTM-30LX and a home made sensor 
with 360 degrees field of view.


I have got this new laser range finder, can you help me to get it 
to work with PSM?

In an ideal case the modifications necessary to get PSM working with a
new laser range finder should be fairly easy: open polar_match.h and
follow STEP 1) to STEP 3). However if you want me to do it, I may be
able to help if you send me an email with the specifications of the
laser, a small sequence of laser scans taken with no more than 20cm 
separation, a description of the data format and your consent to 
include the dataset in future releases of PSM. Odometry information
is not needed in the dataset.


Is PSM better than ICP?

A comparison of PSM and ICP can be found in our IJRR'07 paper. In the
tests, on average, the tested PSM implementation outperformed the
tested ICP implementation.  However it is possible that someone will
come along with a clever ICP implementation which will outperform the
current PSM implementation. Someone also may even find environments
where PSM will perform worse than most ICP implementations.


Is there a better algorithm than PSM?

I am sure there is not one but there are are many. You do not even need 
to look far to find one. For example if your target environment has 
specific features such as lines, corners or sharp peaks in the laser range 
readings, you may be able to extract these features and match them more 
efficiently than most scan matching approaches that use a point-to-point 
association rule. 


What is LASER_Y parameter for?  

LASER_Y describes the laser's position on the Y axis of the robot's
coordinate frame. The Y axis points in the direction of forward
motion of a differential drive mobile robot. This parameter is only
used when odometry pose is used to initialize a scan match, while the
laser is mounted on the Y axis of the robot and the laser scan's center
bearing is aligned with the Y axis. When in doubt, set LASER_Y to 0
and handle coordinate transforms yourself.  


Why do I get the following error during compilation: No rule to make target "test/main.cpp", needed by "main.o"?

Probably the program you used to unzip the zip file did not put the
sources in the proper sub-directories. Use unzip to extract the
contents of psm which will hopefully correctly recreate the necessary
directory structure.


What are these "not enough points" and "orientation failed" error messages?

Remember, PSM is a local scan matching method. Therefore if you start
off with a too large initial pose error then scan matching may diverge
or it may not going to have enough "overlap", that is not enough corresponding
points to start with. The messages you are getting are indications
of this condition. To find out more of what is causing the problem, 
uncomment #define GR in polar_match.cpp, recompile the PSM library and 
re-link it with your program. This time, assuming you used the supplied 
drawing module, you should see the results of the individual scan projection,
orientation search and translation estimation steps in both Cartesian
and polar coordinates. Note that upon generating one of the discussed
error messages, PSM will also throw an exception. Unless you catch
this exception, it will crash your program. 


I need a faster laser scan matching method, what should I do?

I'll assume you have already compiled PSM with the optimization switch
-O2. Then your next best choice is to reduce the number of points you
are matching by reducing the angular resolution of your scan. For
example the Hokuyo URG-LX04 provides up to 682 points over a 240
degree scan. However in many environments it is sufficient to use
only every second measured point or even every third. You can also
reduce the number of iterations by increasing the convergence
threshold but this will likely reduce your accuracy. In PSM, the most
computationally expensive bit is the orientation search. Luckily this
function provides ample opportunities for optimization: you can reduce
the search region; increase the step size and reorganize the inside
loop by getting rid of the "if", performe loop unrolling, use SSE2
instructions... At last you can also wait until I optimize it.
However, as I work on PSM in my free time whenever I deem it necessary, 
you may have to wait a long time until I gather enough reasons to do it.


